Support alibaba cloud manual mode (#412)
openshift/cloud-credential-operator: docs/ccoctl.md

```

where `name` is the name prefix used to create cloud resources. `project` is the ID of the gcp project.

## Alibaba Cloud

This part is the guide for using  manual mode on alibaba cloud, for more use info about manual mode, please reference to [cco-mode-manual](https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/blob/master/docs/mode-manual-creds.md).

In alibaba cloud manual mode,  the CCO utility (`ccoctl`) binary will create Secret manifests for the OpenShift installer that will create multiple users and use a long-lived RAM AK credentials for each OpenShift Container Platform cluster components. and every ram user who owns the AK would be attached the mapping ram policies with the permission defined in each component's CredentialsRequest, and a root ram user with required ram permission is needed for creating ram users, ram polices and also attaching the policy to each target component ram user.

### Prerequisite

1. Extract and prepare the ccoctl binary from the release image.

> 2. Choose an existing ram user who has the ram pemissions below as least, and get this ram user's accesskey id/accesskey secret for creating the ram users and policies for each component and attaching the specific component permission to the mapping ram user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Choose an existing RAM user who has the below permissions, and get this user's accesskey id/secret for creating the RAM users and policies for each in-cluster component.
```

   ```
ram:CreatePolicy
ram:GetPolicy
ram:CreatePolicyVersion
ram:DeletePolicy
ram:DetachPolicyFromUser
ram:ListPoliciesForUser
ram:AttachPolicyToUser
ram:CreateUser
ram:GetUser
ram:DeleteUser
ram:CreateAccessKey
ram:ListAccessKeys
ram:DeleteAccessKey
   ```

> 3. Use the selected ram user’s accesskey id/secret to configure the Alibaba Cloud SDK client's creadential provider chain with [Envionment Creadentials](https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/docs/2-Client-EN.md#1-environment-credentials) mode or through [Credentials File](https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/docs/2-Client-EN.md#2-credentials-file) mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use the selected RAM user’s accesskey id/secret to configure the Alibaba Cloud SDK client's credential provider chain with [Envionment Creadentials](https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/docs/2-Client-EN.md#1-environment-credentials) mode or through [Credentials File](https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/docs/2-Client-EN.md#2-credentials-file) mode
```

### Procedure

1. Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the OpenShift Container Platform release image:

   ```bash
   $ oc adm release extract --credentials-requests --cloud=alibabacloud --to=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests quay.io/<path_to>/ocp-release:<version>
   
   ```

> **step 2&3 are only need when preparing for upgrading clusters with manually maintained credentials. When doing a fresh installation please skip step 2&3**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**step 2&3 are only needed when preparing for upgrading clusters with manually maintained credentials. When doing a fresh installation please skip step 2&3**
```

```

where `name` is the name prefix used to create cloud resources. `project` is the ID of the gcp project.

## Alibaba Cloud

This part is the guide for using  manual mode on alibaba cloud, for more use info about manual mode, please reference to [cco-mode-manual](https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/blob/master/docs/mode-manual-creds.md).

In alibaba cloud manual mode,  the CCO utility (`ccoctl`) binary will create Secret manifests for the OpenShift installer that will use a single long-lived RAM AK credentials for all OpenShift Container Platform cluster components. The target ram user who owns the AK would be attached various ram policies with the permission defined in each component's CredentialsRequest, and a root ram user who required `ram:CreatePolicy` and `ram:AttachPolicyToUser` pemission as least is needed for attaching the permission/policy to the target ram user.

### Prerequisite

1. Extract and prepare the ccoctl binary from the release image.

> 2. [Create a ram user](https://partners-intl.aliyun.com/help/doc-detail/93720.htm)(has no permission in default) for binding the cluster components permission, and set the environment variables `CCOCTL_ALIBABA_COMPONENT_ACCESS_KEY_ID`  with the value of ram user's accesskey id, set `CCOCTL_ALIBABA_COMPONENT_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET`  with the value of ram user's accesskey secret .

Reviewer: We should include steps in doc to set the root credentials

3. Choose an existing ram user who has the `ram:CreatePolicy` and `ram:AttachPolicyToUser` pemissions as least, and get this ram user's accesskey id/accesskey secret for attaching the specific component permission to the ram user created in step 2.
4. Use the step 3 ram user’s accesskey id/secret to configure the Alibaba Cloud SDK client's creadential provider chain with [Envionment Creadentials](https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/docs/2-Client-EN.md#1-environment-credentials) mode or through [Credentials File](https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/docs/2-Client-EN.md#2-credentials-file) mode

### Procedure

1. Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the OpenShift Container Platform release image:

   ```bash
   $ oc adm release extract --credentials-requests --cloud=alibabacloud --to=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests quay.io/<path_to>/ocp-release:<version>

>    

Reviewer: This functionality is not implemented yet in `oc` cli. We need to first complete that before merging this PR. Check the PR for ibmcloud [here](https://github.com/openshift/oc/pull/852).

       statementEntries:
       - action:
         - ecs:CopySnapshot
         - ecs:DeleteDisk
         - ecs:DescribeInstanceAttribute
         - ecs:DescribeInstances
         effect: Allow
         resource: '*'
     secretRef:
       namespace: cloud-credential-operator-ram-ro-creds
       name: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
   ```

 3. For any `CredentialsRequest` CR for which the cluster does not already have a namespace with the name specified in `spec.secretRef.namespace`, create the namespace:

   ```
   $ oc create namespace <component_namespace>
   ```

4. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process all `CredentialsRequest` objects in the `credrequests` directory:

   ```bash
   $ ccoctl alibabacloud attach-ram-policy --name <name> --region=<region> --credentials-requests-dir=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests --output-dir=xxxxxx
   ```

    where:

   - `name` is the name used to tag any cloud resources that are created for tracking. 
   - `region` is the Alibaba Cloud region in which cloud resources will be created.
   - `credentials-requests-dir` is the directory containing files of component CredentialsRequests.

>    - `output-dir`/manifests is the directory containing files of component credentials secret.

Reviewer: Docs are inconsistent. I think command `attach-ram-policy` has changed to `attach-ram-policy-to-existing-user` now.

```bash
ccoctl ibmcloud delete-service-id --credentials-requests-dir <path-to-directory-with-list-of-credentials-requests> --name <name> 
```

## Alibaba Cloud

> This is a guide for using manual mode on alibaba cloud, for more info about manual mode, please refer to [cco-mode-manual](https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/blob/master/docs/mode-manual-creds.md).

Reviewer 2: @jeana-redhat while this is fine for 'upstream docs' when we downstream these docs we need to remove / redirect this to docs we have that don't reside on github.

Reviewer 3: Yep, would def be pointing to the product docs version of this content :+1:

For alibaba cloud,  the CCO utility (`ccoctl`) binary will create credentials Secret manifests for the OpenShift installer. It will also create a user along with a long-lived RAM AccessKey (AK) for each OpenShift in-cluster component. Every RAM user who owns the AK would be attached RAM policies with the permission defined in each component's CredentialsRequest. To do all this, ccoctl consumes AK of a root RAM user with permissions required for creating user/policy and also attaching the policy to the user.

### Prerequisite

> 1. Extract and prepare the ccoctl binary from the release image.

Reviewer 2: Show a command for how to do this; don't assume you users know how to do this.

Reviewer 3: Agreed, we show this for the AWS versions and I will be modelling the structure for new platform support on what we have for AWS

Author: @sferich888 thanks for the review! I could only found a Chinese doc for these on https://help.aliyun.com/document_detail/311677.html, and I will check if there is an English version with my colleague

> 2. Choose an existing RAM user who has the below permissions, and get this user's accesskey id/secret for creating the RAM users and policies for each in-cluster component.

Reviewer 3: Do we need to tell the user where/how to get the accesskey id/secret for the user account they will use?

Reviewer 4: Generally these are given to a user when they are assigned an account. Users can manage their keys with their RAM (resource access management console). This document explains a littl emore about getting AccessKeys https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/doc-detail/53045.htm

Reviewer 3: Excellent - that documentation is very helpful.

   ```
ram:CreatePolicy
ram:GetPolicy
ram:CreatePolicyVersion
ram:DeletePolicy
ram:DetachPolicyFromUser
ram:ListPoliciesForUser
ram:AttachPolicyToUser
ram:CreateUser
ram:GetUser
ram:DeleteUser
ram:CreateAccessKey
ram:ListAccessKeys
ram:DeleteAccessKey
   ```

> 3. Use the selected RAM user’s accesskey id/secret to configure the Alibaba Cloud SDK client's credential provider chain with [Envionment Creadentials](https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/docs/2-Client-EN.md#1-environment-credentials) mode or through [Credentials File](https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/docs/2-Client-EN.md#2-credentials-file) mode

Reviewer 3: Are these links official Alibaba Cloud documentation intended for the end user?

Author: Yes, this sdk is our official supported, and these docs are also for end user consumption.

Reviewer 3: Thanks! :+1:

Reviewer 2: @DahuK is there something more official? When we downstream these docs; we don't want to link to github; if at all possible.

       statementEntries:
       - action:
         - ecs:CopySnapshot
         - ecs:DeleteDisk
         - ecs:DescribeInstanceAttribute
         - ecs:DescribeInstances
         effect: Allow
         resource: '*'
     secretRef:
       namespace: cloud-credential-operator-ram-ro-creds
       name: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
   ```

 3. For any `CredentialsRequest` CR for which the cluster does not already have a namespace with the name specified in `spec.secretRef.namespace`, create the namespace:

   ```bash
   $ oc create namespace <component_namespace>
   ```

4. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process all `CredentialsRequest` objects in the `credrequests` directory:

   ```bash
   $ ccoctl alibabacloud create-ram-users --name <name> --region=<region> --credentials-requests-dir=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests --output-dir=xxxxxx
   ```

    where:

   - `name` is the name used to tag any cloud resources that are created for tracking. 
   - `region` is the Alibaba Cloud region in which cloud resources will be created.
   - `credentials-requests-dir` is the directory containing files of component CredentialsRequests.

>    - `output-dir`/manifests is the directory containing files of component credentials secret.

Reviewer 3: What does `/manifests` on this line mean?

Reviewer 4: This `/manifests` means that results from the `ccoctl` binary will be placed in a directory on the system located at `/manifests`.

Reviewer 3: I'm interpreting that to mean `<output-dir>/manifests` then - let me know if that's incorrect

Reviewer 5: @jeana-redhat your interpretation is correct, the manifests will be placed inside `<output-dir>/manifests`. Let me share some examples:
If I run:
``` bash
ccoctl alibabacloud create-ram-users \
  --region ${ALIBABA_REGION_ID} \
  --name <cluster_name> \
  --credentials-requests-dir ${PWD}/cco-credrequests \
  --output-dir ${PWD}/cco-manifests
```
I will get that structure:
``` bash
$ tree cco-manifests/
cco-manifests/
└── manifests
    ├── openshift-cluster-csi-drivers-alibaba-disk-credentials-credentials.yaml
    ├── openshift-image-registry-installer-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
    ├── openshift-ingress-operator-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
    └── openshift-machine-api-alibabacloud-credentials-credentials.yaml

```

5. Prepare to run the OpenShift Container Platform installer:

   a. Create the install-config.yaml file:
   ```bash
   $ openshift-install create install-config --dir ./path/to/installation/dir
   ```
   b. Configure the cluster to install with the CCO in manual mode:

   ```bash
   $ echo "credentialsMode: Manual" >> ./path/to/installation/dir/install-config.yaml
   ```
   
   c. Create install manifests:

   ```bash
   $ openshift-install create manifests --dir ./path/to/installation/dir
   ```

   d. Copy the generated credential files to the target manifests directory:

   ```bash
   $ cp <output_dir>/manifests/*credentials.yaml ./path/to/installation/dir/manifests/
   ```

> 6. To delete resources created by ccoctl, run

Reviewer 3: Should the user always delete after installing? Or is this a cleanup step for uninstalling (I am asking based on other provider docs)?

Reviewer 4: These keys will most likely live until the cluster is uninstalled. The keys are being used by the cluster's internal components that require API access. They MUST not be deleted after installation or the cluster will not continue to function properly.

Reviewer 3: Ok, so a cleanup after uninstall step similar to other platforms then. Thanks!
